Documentation and model of SNAP8-ER (#138)
idaholab/virtual_test_bed: doc/content/microreactors/s8er/s8er_reactor_description.md

# SNAP 8 Experimental Reactor (S8ER) Description

*Contact: Isaac Naupa, iaguirre6@gatech.edu*
*Contact: Stefano Terlizzi, Stefano.Terlizzi@inl.gov*

!alert note
For citing purposes, please cite [!citep](s8er_garcia2022) and [!citep](s8er_naupa2022).

## Introduction

> The S8ER was part of a fleet of reactors built during the Systems for Nuclear Auxilliary Power (SNAP) program. These reactors were spaced based aiming to be used as auxilliary power for components such as satellites. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The S8ER was part of a fleet of reactors built during the Systems for Nuclear Auxilliary Power (SNAP) program. These reactors were space-based aiming to be used as auxiliary power for components such as satellites. 
```

| Fuel              |   UZrH     |
| Coolant           |   NaK      |
| Inlet Temp ($\degree$F)    |    1100    |
| Outlet Temp ($\degree$F)   | 1300     |
| Heavy Metal Loading (kg of U 93.15 Wt%  |   6.56    |
| Outlet Temp ($\degree$F)   | 1300     |

## Core Description

As described earlier, the S8ER is a compact nuclear reactor using homogenous combined HEU fuel with Zirconium-Hydride as the fuel-moderator mix. The system uses a mix of burnable poisons aswell as stationary and moveable reflectors for reactivity control. 

!media s8er/core_reflector_view.png
  caption= S8ER Core and Reflector Assembly View, from [!citep](SNAP8Summary)
  style=width:60%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto

!table id=table-floating2 caption=S8ER Core Characteristics
| Parameter      | Value  |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Upper grid plate material | SS 316 |
| Upper grid plate material | Hastelloy-C |
| Internal Reflector Material | BeO  |
| External Reflector Material | Be  |
| External Reflector Nominal Thickness | 0.0762 m  |
| Core Vessel Outer Diameter | 0.237236 m |
| Core Vessel Height  | 0.237236 m |
| Hex Lattice Pitch  | 0.014478 m |

## Fuel Element

> The core contains 211 elements arranged in a hexongal lattice. Each rod contains the homogenous UZrH mix as the fuel base, a hydrogen diffusion barrier consisting of the ceramic AI-8763D infused with burnable poison Sm2O3, an internal atmosphere conisting of Helium as a gap, and a layer of Hastelloy N cladding. The fuel pins contain upper and lower endcaps for contaiment aswell as indexing.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core contains 211 elements arranged in a hexagonal lattice. Each rod contains the homogenous UZrH mix as the fuel base, a hydrogen diffusion barrier consisting of the ceramic AI-8763D infused with burnable poison Sm2O3, an internal atmosphere consisting of Helium as a gap, and a layer of Hastelloy N cladding. The fuel pins contain upper and lower end caps for containment as well as indexing.   
```

!media s8er/fuelpin_view.png
  caption= S8ER Fuelpin Diagram, from [!citep](SNAP8Summary)
  style=width:60%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto

> !table id=table-floating3 caption=S8ER Fuelpin Characteristics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!table id=table-floating3 caption=S8ER Fuel pin Characteristics
```
